release: 2024-01-29 (#1487)
tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle: CHANGELOG.md

# TigerBeetle Changelog

## 2024-01-29

### Safety And Performance

- [#1446](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1446)

  Panic on checkpoint divergence. Previously, if a replica's state on disk diverged, we'd
  use state sync to bring it in line. Now, we don't allow any storage engine nondeterminism
  (mixed version clusters are forbidden) and panic if we encounter any.

- [#1476](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1476)

  Fix a liveness issues when starting a view across checkpoints in an idle cluster.

- [#1460](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1460)

  Stop an isolated replica from locking a standby out of a cluster.

### Features

- [#1470](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1470)

>   Change `get_account_transfers` to use `timestamp_min` and `timestamp_max` for easier pagination.

Reviewer: Actually, it made pagination more difficult!

```suggestion
  Change `get_account_transfers` to use `timestamp_min` and `timestamp_max` to allow filtering by time ranges.
```

- [#1463](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1463)

  Allow setting `--addresses=0` when starting TigerBeetle to enable a mode helpful for integration
  tests:
  * A free port will be picked automatically.
  * The port, and only the port, will be printed to stdout which will then be closed.
  * TigerBeetle will [exit when its stdin is closed](https://matklad.github.io/2023/10/11/unix-structured-concurrency.html).

- [#1402](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1402)

  TigerBeetle now has a [dev workbench](https://tigerbeetle.github.io/tigerbeetle/)! Currently we
  track our build times and executable size over time.

### Internals

- [#1480](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1480)

  Deprecate support and testing for Node 16, which is EOL.

- [#1461](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1461)

>   `tigerbeetle client ...` is now `tigerbeetle repl ...`.

Reviewer 2: Could you move that to features? This is very much user-visible.

- [#1477](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1477),
  [#1469](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1469),
  [#1475](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1475),
  [#1457](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1457),
  [#1452](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1452).

  Improve VOPR & VSR logging, docs, assertions and tests.

- [#1474](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1474

> )

Reviewer 2: extra \n here?

Author: Snuck in! Sublime collapses markdown links including newlines :exploding_head:.

  Improve integration tests around Node and `pending_transfer_expired` - thanks to our friends at

>   Rafiki for reporting!

Reviewer 2: :heart:
